# Parser and Three Address Code Generator of CBaby

The attached project generates a parser and three address code, after lexical analysis of a compiler for language (defined by rules) called CBaby

[About CBaby Language](https://github.com/shakayhere/lexical-analyzer-of-cbaby#about-cbaby-language)
<br />
[Lexical Analyzer of CBaby](https://github.com/shakayhere/lexical-analyzer-of-cbaby)

## About Parser Generator
The Parser will take the file `tokens.txt` generated by the Lexical Analyzer, and analyze its syntax according to the
CBaby grammar in `documentation.pdf`. In the case of incorrect syntax, it will halt execution and print an
appropriate error message. In the case of completely correct syntax, it will produce a parse tree `parsetree.txt` of the
code.
The following are some test cases and sample output of the code:

#### Wrong Input
<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>Output</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>
func void: write(char: j)
{
	print j
	ret;
}
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
Syntax error at line 3
3       print j
Review your code and try again
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Correct Input

<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>Output</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>
func void: write(char: j)
{
	print (j);
	ret;
}
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
Enter path/filename: test.cbaby
Execution successful. Check textfile for generated tokens!
Parser successfully generated. Check textfile!
Three-Address Code successfully generated. Check textfile!
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

The parse tree also produces a file `parser-symboltable.txt` which includes the names of all functions visited, as well as all tokens and non-null lexemes. It clearly illustrates function depth using whitespace and non-alphabetic
characters.

#### Output of Textfiles
<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>parser-symboltable.txt</th>
<th>parsetree.txt</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
func void write(char: j)<br />
{<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	print(j);<br />
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;	ret;<br />
}<br />
</td>
<td>
<pre>
SCOPE START
SCOPE START
write	FUNC
j	CHAR
SCOPE END
SCOPE END
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
Start
==> Function
==>==> func
==>==> void
==>==> VDO
==>==>==> :
==>==> ID("write")
==>==> (
==>==> forParam
==>==>==> sendParam
==>==>==>==> Param
==>==>==>==>==> TD
==>==>==>==>==>==> char
==>==>==>==>==> VDO
==>==>==>==>==>==> :
==>==>==>==>==> ID("j")
==>==>==>==> nextParam
==>==>==>==>==> ^
==>==> )
==>==> {
==>==> forStatement
==>==>==> Statement
==>==>==>==> PRINT
==>==>==>==> (
==>==>==>==> OutputOptions
==>==>==>==>==> ID("j")
==>==>==>==> )
==>==>==>==> ;
==>==>==> forStatement
==>==>==>==> Statement
==>==>==>==>==> RET
==>==>==>==>==> ;
==>==>==>==> forStatement
==>==>==>==>==> ^
==>==> }
==> Start
==>==> ^
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## About Three Address Code Generator
Along with parser, there is a translator that produces three-address code for a given program in CBaby.
Appropriate actions have been added in the defined grammar to do this task. Like the parser, the translator will take the file `tokens.txt` generated by the lex, along with the
symbol table. In the case of incorrect syntax or semantics, it will halt execution and print an appropriate error message. In the case of completely correct syntax, it will produce the three-address code `tac.txt`

The following are some test cases and sample output of the code:

#### Wrong Input
<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>Output</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>
func Integer: addNumbers(Integer: a, Integer: b)
{
	Integer: c;
	c := a + b;
}
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
Syntax error at line 1
1       func Integer: addNumbers(Integer: a, Integer: b)
No return argument in function or invalid assignment of function call
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Correct Input

<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>Output</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>
func Integer: addNumbers(Integer: a, Integer: b)
{
	Integer: c;
	c := a + b;
	ret c;
}
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
Enter path/filename: test.cbaby
Execution successful. Check textfile for generated tokens!
Parser successfully generated. Check textfile!
Three-Address Code successfully generated. Check textfile!
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

The translator also produces a file `translator-symboltable.txt` which includes all the names, datatypes, and relative addresses of all the
variables. This file contains data variables only, not function names.

#### Output of Textfiles
<table>
<tr>
<th>test.cbaby</th>
<th>translator-symboltable.txt</th>
<th>tac.txt</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
func Integer: addNumbers(Integer: a, Integer: b)<br />
{<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer: c;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;char: d;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c := a + b + 5 + 7;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ret c;<br />
}
</td>
<td>
<pre>
a	INTEGER	0
b	INTEGER	4
c	INTEGER	8
d	CHAR	12
t1	INTEGER	13
t2	INTEGER	17
t3	INTEGER	21
</pre>
</td>
<td>

```
1	addNumbers:
2	integer a
3	integer b
4	integer c
5	char d
6	t1 = a + b
7	t2 = t1 + 5
8	t3 = t2 + 7
9	c = t3
10	ret c
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Before you Start
The program is made and tested in java version "1.8.0_291". So, you should have Java JDK 8 installed on your system. If not, you can see the following link for installation
<br />
[How to Install JDK 8 (on Windows, Mac OS & Ubuntu)](http://cnaiman.com/COMP170/Orientation/How%20to%20Install%20JDK%208%20%28on%20Windows%2C%20Mac%20OS%2C%20Ubuntu%29%20and%20Get%20Started%20with%20Java%20Programming.html "How to Install JDK 8")


## How to Build and Run
In src folder, enter the following command to compile the code. Binary files will be produced with extention `.class`
```
javac ParseAndTranslate/*.java
```

To run this file, enter the following in src folder:
```
java ParseAndTranslate.Source
```

## License
Copyright (c) 2021 shakayhere

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
